# Angular

## Angular CLI

First and foremost, you should learn the `@angular/cli`.

It helps us create the scaffold quickly to save us time and generate the template to teach us how to use `angular`.

To use it, you need install it.

```sh
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

The system have a more executable command called `ng`.

Using the following command with option ask for help.

```sh
ng --help
```

Besides, you can use the following command to check more details:

```sh
ng <CMD> --help
# for exampe
ng generate --help
```

The [official documentation](https://angular.io/cli) is also recommended.

### Get 

Now, Let's put it in the actual application scenario.

First, create the project with minimal workspace:

```sh
ng new <PROJECT_NAME> --minimal
# please don't forget the `ng new --help` to get more info when you don't know its meanings
```

Now we got a minimal workspace.

Then I will create some subproject in it.

```sh
ng generate <TYPE> <NAME>
# for example
ng generate application halo
ng generate library iui
```

Bssides it, we can create the component for project/subproject.

```sh
ng generate component <NAME>
```

Note that you need add the `--project=<PROJECT_NAME>` options when the project have more projects.


## Learn Project Structure

### angular.json

All angular projects have `angular.json` in the root of workspace except the `npm` project file.

There is no doubt the file is config file of angular project.

It holds various necessary information of the project for building.

__TODO__

If you want to learn more about it, you can try it yourself.

### src

it's as default source code directory.

### project

it holds the subprojects.



## Issue

### Custom The Base Href

由于服务器不多，我又不想使用http+port这种简陋方案，于是我便使用NGINX反向代理，用新的相对路径指向端口，但是我发现每次访问这个相对路径的时候，他都会跳转到根目录。

解决方案：

首先删除index.html文件中`<base />`标签；

然后在构建过程中制定相对路径`ng build --base-href ./`。



